We found paramecium in a total of 10 samples collected from the Nala and nearby puddles.
50 mL cultures were made for each of the 10 samples. (refer Materials and methods ) 
To every 40 mL of water, 10 mL of the sample water was added.
These cultures were checked after two days of having set up.
Our requirement was to have two samples of paramecium having visibly distinct sizes and/or phenotypes.
We observed relatively large paramecium in one of the samples collected from the Nala, but we did not find paramecium which were much smaller in size than this.
So, we used another species of Paramecium, available with another group in our lab, which had a fairly smaller size. 
We set up 100 mL cultures for both of these Paramecium species.
The cultures are referred to as:
Flask P: small paramecium
Flask Q: large paramecium.
Both the flasks were checked on the next day.
Flask P: Under 4X, only paramecium were seen.
Flask Q: Under 4X, small round organisms ( referred to as “organism X “) were seen in high numbers apart from the large paramecium.
Isolating Paramecium from Flask Q
10 uL of the culture was taken on a glass slide.
The drop was diluted with 200 uL of water.
Under 4X  : organism X were seen in the bottom part of the drop, while the paramecium were seen floating on the top part.
We used a 20 uL micropipette, to carefully extract the top part of the drop.
This isolated drop was used to set up a 25 mL culture.
But on the next day, both organism X and paramecium were found in significant nos. in the flask.
Result : large paramecium could not be isolated.
Motivation behind next step:
In competition, the presence of the organism X can be taken as a component of the environment.

SETTING UP THE CULTURES FOR PARAMECIUM COMPETITION STUDIES:
Both the paramecium cultures were allowed to grow for about 7 days after which we safely assumed that both the populations had reached their corresponding carrying capacities.
We determined the population densities of Flask P and Flask Q, which essentially gave us the values of their carrying capacities, K1 and K2.

Two replicates were set up; namely Flask A and Flask B :
Total volume : 50 mL
Volume of Flask P culture added: 2.29 mL
Volume of Flask Q culture added: 3.92 mL
Ambient temperature of the cultures :

Counting :
Pls refer to counting.A
This was continued for 14 days.







